After Hugo's banishment...
Traitor!
..the remaining Traitors were set
a treacherous task.
Shortlist nine players for murder.
If successful. the Secret Traitor
will join you tonight.
And having succeeded in their plight.
the Secret Traitor
was finally revealed.
Fiona!
I basically have done your job
for you.
Fiona coming in makes me nervous.
She's so unpredictable.
I sense
that Rachel is playing her own game.
The murder shortlist
sent the castle into chaos.
Nine people are up for murder.
And an early Round Table...
I do feel like I'm being set up.
Was Hugo this dramatic
in the turret?
I didn't... In what turret?
..saw another Faithful fall.
- Ross.
- Ooh!
I have always been a Faithful.
I knew it.
Ross is actually my boyfriend.
What I've got to do now
is avenge his death.
At the mission. players fought
to take their friends
off the murder shortlist...
Steady hands. steady hands.
..resulting in Maz.
Reece. Sam and Stephen still caged
for potential murder.
One of you will be
murdered tonight face-to-face.
Oh. my God.
I do think that we put
the right person in the grave.
This is The Traitors.
# Fire in her eyes
# Dawn of a new day
# Come out of the shadows... #
Good luck.
I was just so relieved.
I did not want to go tonight.
Sam was released first.
I was then released second.
And so I didn't actually know
whether they had chosen
Maz or Reece.
Time to meet my fellow Traitors
and find out.
# We are out of the shadows. #
Last night. either Reece
or Maz were murdered
face-to-face by the Traitors.
It's time for breakfast.
and for the rest of the Faithful
to find out who the victim was.
# But what I really want to know is
# Are you gonna go my way?
# And I got to. got to know... #
- Oh. we're the first!
- Wow!
- Oh. gosh. Here we go.
- Honey. I'm home!
I don't think I've ever been
the first.
To murder somebody
face-to-face last night
was really wicked.
FIONA CHUCKLES
- Who wants a cup of tea?
- Yeah. I'll have a wee...
I'll have a wee cuppa.
I'm enjoying every single minute
of my role.
I'm loving it!
FIONA SNIGGERS
So. what's everybody's thoughts?
- Who's going to come in today?
- Oh. gosh!
I hope Maz.
- I hope Maz too.
- I felt so bad last night.
I tried my absolute best during
that mission yesterday
and it just fell apart in my hands.
And. well. I feel for Maz.
and I'm just hoping
that he wasn't going to be the one
that was going to be murdered.
I will be shooketh
if Sam doesn't come back.
I'm not sure I would get rid
of Reece.
If Reece comes in.
I am convinced now
that he is a Traitor.
KNOCK ON DOOR
Come in. come in.
God. who have we got?
- Well. hello.
- Hello!
- Hi. Amanda!
- Hey!
- Hello.
- The energy has entered the room.
ROXY LAUGHS
All right?
Positively radiant this morning.
It's the first time
I know I'm going to breakfast.
Reece was telling players
to get other players out
instead of him.
I think. in the cage.
he thought.
"I'm safe.
Just give the skulls out."
My gut's saying it'll either be Maz
or Stephen because. of the four...
- I think Maz or Stephen.
- I fear for Stephen.
I'm worried about Stephen.
I think he will come under fire.
coming back.
I kind of regret putting him on
the shortlist at that moment.
And we just need
to navigate today carefully.
I can't come right out
and defend him.
- Who was left in the cage?
- Maz.
Reece. Stephen and Sam.
There's going to be question marks
over whoever comes back.
There could be more than one Traitor
in that group.
- Oh. 100%.
- Yeah.
KNOCK ON DOOR
- Oh. God.
- Here we go.
Good morning.
CHEERS AND APPLAUSE
- Here we are.
- You all right?
- Yeah. good. You?
I'm not very surprised
that Sam walked back in today.
because I think Sam's a Traitor.
- What happened?
- Um...
So. yeah. back in the cages.
it was me. uh...
..Maz. Reece. Stephen.
And then they had
this druid/executioner with.
like. a massive axe.
just walking in front of all of our
four cages. and stopped at mine.
And then I left.
- You were first to leave. then?
- Yeah. I was first. Yeah.
Sam.
who do you think's not coming back?
If I were a Traitor.
I don't think...
I'd probably murder Stephen.
I'm going to be so sad
if it's Stephen.
I love Stephen.
I really trust him. as well.
I hope for you Stephen comes back.
KNOCK ON DOOR
- Oh.
- Come in!
Oh. yes!
THEY ALL CHEER
- Come on!
- You've made it!
Oh. Stephen!
No way is Stephen a Traitor.
- Oh. my God!
- Oh. Stephen!
- Look how red he is.
- Yeah. yeah. yeah.
Stephen. what happened. then?
Like...
Uh. not much happened. really.
We were just in cages.
The guy was just walking
back and forth.
back and forth with the axe.
And then...
So. Sam was first.
and then I was second.
So then it was Reece
and Maz that were left after me.
How does he know it was Reece third?
- I don't know it was Reece third.
- You said...
- You said you two...
- I said Reece and Maz were left.
Oh. sorry. I thought I heard you...
I thought I heard you say.
"Then Reece. then Maz."
I wouldn't defend Reece.
if I were you.
I'm already under
the bloody cross-examination. man.
Yeah. likewise.
I am stressed today.
I'm trying to.
like. mask it a little bit
and maybe channel it
into looking like
I'm just miffed about
the situation last night.
But this is the first time.
really. in the game that I have
felt like things
are unravelling in front of me.
and I can't quite get it back.
Yeah.
He's done nothing. He's got...
I've got no evidence on Stephen.
Stephen's name has come up.
Rachel has not defended him
in any shape or form.
I would prefer to be a team player.
but I don't sense Rachel wants that.
She's a lone wolf.
Surely it has to be Maz
coming through that door.
Well. if Reece does not
walk through that door.
I will eat my hat.
If Maz comes back.
then I have to look at Maz.
KNOCK ON DOOR
Oh. my word.
JAMES GASPS
THEY ALL CHEER
# This will never end
cos I want more
# More. give me more.
give me more... #
- I hate that this is me and you.
- Yeah.
I hate this.
If you get let go. Reece.
get the Traitors.
Oh. my God.
- I'm so sorry. mate.
- Hey. you don't need to be sorry.
Well done.
Enjoy.
I'm so elated right now.
but my face doesn't show it.
It is so bittersweet because.
Maz. what a beautiful soul.
People say it's just a game.
but it's just so cruel.
Oh...
# I take the crown... #
Oh. my God!
I could swear. but I won't.
Maz. by order of the Traitors.
you have been murdered.
I would have believed
YOU were a Traitor.
But you two. you let me down badly.
Rachel is playing a fantastic game.
She's under the radar.
Fiona. I mean. I didn't have a clue.
We were good friends.
and people saw that.
And all the while.
she was planning to kill me.
We're done here.
The fact that the Traitors had
to murder me.
I must have unnerved them.
scared them a little bit.
I'm absolutely gutted
that my journey stops here.
THEY ALL CHEER
- Oh. Maz! Maz!
- Maz!
- Hello. everyone.
- Hey. Reece.
- Hey. pal.
- Hello. Hello. Hello.
- Come here.
- Crap. weren't it?
- Yeah.
The whole thing was crap.
Reece. will you tell us
what happened?
Yeah. so. obviously I was
the last one - other than Maz.
So.
knowing what I know about myself.
I then knew he was a Faithful
because he...
A Traitor can't be murdered.
So to just look at him
and just have to.
like. walk by him.
it proper got to me.
Cos it's like... It's just...
The one thing I didn't want to be
was obviously last.
but I definitely didn't want to
face the person who was...
Because that's. like...
That's just crap. Because it's...
Sorry. can I just pick up
on something you just said?
- Go on.
- So. you two were left?
- Yep.
But how would you know
that he was a Faithful?
Because it could have been him
that got freed at that point.
Of course. yeah. but I...
Well. if he was freed at that point.
then. I know I'm a Faithful.
so if he was freed at that point.
then the game's...
He'd have came back to murder me
if he was a Traitor.
I... I... I... I don't know.
It's just shit cos it's like
you're the last one. man.
I know. man. I know.
LIVELY CHATTER
- Good morning. everyone.
- Morning.
How are you feeling?
- Tired.
- I'll tell you
who's not feeling well.
and that's Maz.
Because he was brutally murdered
by the Traitors.
Please. could somebody
help me take him down?
- Go on. Ellie.
- Thanks. Ellie.
Take a last look at Maz.
And remember.
the last thing he saw were
the Traitors...
..as he was murdered face-to-face.
You could say the Traitors. well.
they're getting bolder.
But today you'll all be
playing with fire.
I'll see you at the mission.
We're going to have to
set something alight. are we?
- Congratulations.
- Oh. well. ta.
- No. honestly.
- You survived.
Honestly. I wasn't even...
In the cage. I was like...
I wasn't even scared.
I was like.
"Oh. they'll just bring me back."
Do you know what I mean? I was like.
"I know it's going to be
me and Reece."
Yeah. I think it would have
been really daft to murder you.
Yeah.
- How are you?
- Fine.
Give you a hug.
Reece...
- Just crap. man.
- ..you are either
an absolute Faithful
or an absolute Traitor.
Thank you for that.
REECE CHUCKLES
And the jury's still out.
- Thank you. I know.
- I want you to be Faithful.
I want you to believe me
as well.
but I feel like I'm
getting to the point now
where people don't believe me.
- And the only way of...
- I think it's getting to the point
where everybody's looking
for evidence on somebody else.
Can I ask.
what do you think of Amanda?
Um. she is currently
the highest person on my list.
I don't know if it's
Traitor or Faithful.
but what I do know is that
she spends
- a lot of time trying to tell other
people how to think.
- So...
- Hi!
- Hiya. my love.
You look absolutely glorious today.
- You look like you belong on the
Costa del Sol or something.
- Yeah.
So. I was thinking.
the people that I'm closest to
at the moment in this castle.
we are open with our theories.
But I never feel like they're trying
to drive me down a path.
I'm like. as a Faithful.
I'm not discounting any theories.
- I'm not trying to push people...
- No. I'm not discounting anything.
I'm actually trying to let them in
and consider
what other people are saying.
Amanda is definitely on my mind.
What's your motive here?
Why are you so strongly pushing
people to think a certain way
and kind of dismissing other ways
of thinking?
So it definitely needs a bit
more investigation.
PEACOCK CAWS
- I think it's Stephen...
- Yeah.
- ..Roxy...
- ..and Jade.
The thing with Stephen -
he was bright red when he come in.
- Yeah. no. it's true.
- I know he...
- No. no. no. it's true.
- He was in that room with me.
- Ben. Ellie. James.
- Yeah. yeah.
He was in it.
But I don't want to air it
because people are like.
"No. it isn't him". and just dis...
Dismiss it.
I am an opinionated person.
I just have this feeling
that Stephen is a Traitor
and he's playing a really good game.
Living with a s-s...
..stammer does make you resilient.
I have learnt to accept who I am.
But it can be hard to try
and get your voice heard.
- Can I join?
- I can't work any of it out.
I'll tell you what.
who's the most tired today?
- Because...
- Most tired?
- Yeah. because I was first freed.
- I'm obviously knackered.
- Yeah. yeah.
- But three more people to go.
- Yeah.
The Traitors had to be there to
murder that final person in person.
- Yeah. so. who's getting
extra coffee today?
- Well. I mean...
ROXY CHUCKLES
Yeah. yeah.
- Who IS?
- Who is?
- I'd say I'm tired.
- Yeah.
There's going to be people
more tired than me here.
Who do you suspect the most?
Well. I think I have to
stick with Reece
- from just what I saw
at the Round Table.
- Yeah.
I can't...
You know. the obvious for me -
I have to go on what I've seen.
This game is so intense.
I don't think I've made any slip-ups
so far.
but I know it's going to get harder.
I know all the Faithfuls
are going to analyse every word
out of your mouth. and they're
going to be watching for mistakes.
The prize fund
currently stands at £33.750.
To increase that pot.
the Faithful and the Traitors
will need to come together as a team
in today's mission.
Does anyone remember what Claudia
said at breakfast about fire?
- Was it "playing with fire?"
- Fire - playing with fire.
Planes with fire?
- Not "planes"! Playing.
- Playing!
- My head's spinning.
- Mine is.
I feel like. at breakfast.
I was trying to open my mind up
to consider Stephen.
And then I was talking with him
in the kitchen alone.
It's really hard to imagine.
but that's what people
often fall prey to. isn't it?
I looked at Reece today
when he walked in
and he was genuinely.
genuinely upset.
Sam and Stephen.
they're all in the same boat.
and I feel that they reacted
differently to Reece.
Reece is a... He's a Faithful.
- Oh!
- Oh. my God!
They look so creepy.
Oh. my God!
There was just
ten really big beasts -
what it looked like.
And we were like.
"What the heck is going on here?"
Oh. no! There's lots of flags
with our names on them.
All our names
are written on shields.
And so. we're already thinking.
"Uh-oh."
Players. welcome to your mission.
I know what you're thinking -
bit early for Bonfire Night.
Don't worry...
..there is no gunpowder here.
But there may be treason.
and definitely plot.
Today's mission is simple.
All you have to do is set fire
to these magnificent beasts.
There are ten of them.
What you'll have to do is
go into the woods.
find the hidden spears.
come back here.
light them on the fire pit
and drive them into the beast.
You will have 20 minutes
in which to do this.
And for every beast that is
set alight within the time limit.
- I will add £1.000 to the prize fund.
- Come on.
Isn't that charming?
- That means you could win
a whopping £10.000 today.
- Amazing.
Players. as always. that's not all.
As you can see. you all have shields.
and are currently protected
from tonight's murder.
But every time you get a spear
and plunge it into the beast.
I will need you to shout out a name.
Their shield will burst into flames
and they will no longer be protected
from murder.
THEY ALL MURMUR
So. you are going to have to decide
who leaves here without a shield.
and is therefore
up for murder tonight.
Oh. no. It's a brutal game.
Faithful or Traitor.
this mission
will turn people against each other.
So. players.
you can tackle this mission
in pairs. in small groups.
You can also go it alone.
Please decide now
how you're going to tackle it.
LIVELY CHATTER
We'll definitely go together
- because we were both up
for murder last night.
- Yeah.
Do we want more than two?
Do we want two?
I'm happy to do a four if you want.
Yeah. let's do a four.
I think. at this stage.
people kind of naturally gravitate
towards people that they trust more.
So you can actually see mini
cliques forming at this point.
Your mission starts in
three. two. one...
..go!
AIR HORN BLARES
Right. come on. then.
Come on. then. Come on. then.
The horn goes. down the hill we go.
- Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa!
- I can't stop!
All right. Sam. we're following you.
They've all sprinted off.
The question is.
who will be back first?
And whose name is going to
be shouted out first?
If it was me.
I'd take it quite personally.
Where are we? Where are we?
Sam. we're with you.
- We're with you.
We're with you.
- This is mad.
As soon as people got to the point
where the spears would be
in the woods.
everybody was out for themselves.
Where is it. man?
Everyone was running around left.
right and centre.
I don't see a spear. Do you?
It was absolute carnage.
- Got it!
- Yes. Matt!
- You're our hero!
All I want to do
is find as many spears as possible.
Because the more spears I find.
the less spears can be used
to un-shield me.
The first team are coming back
with a spear.
Who are they going to choose?
Who are they going to sacrifice?
- We have to come to an agreement.
- I'm happy to go Sam.
- Or Reece?
- I think Reece will get
picked anyway.
Why don't we let another
group pick Reece?
- Yeah.
- So we go with Sam?
I think Sam's a Traitor.
and so. the rationale is.
a Traitor's
not going to murder themselves.
so let's put Traitors up for murder
and save one person
from potential murder.
- Go on. Matt. Go on.
- Go on.
Sam!
£1.000 added to the pot.
and Sam might die!
Harsh but true.
Through the archway. then. boys.
Well done.
Steve and Reece. Adam and Sam.
Who are they going to target?
Lovely. My shield's gone first.
Great.
My name is the first one
to be put up in flames.
Who's done that? Like. immediately.
my name's already been
floating around again as a Traitor.
- Do me. Do me.
- Why?
It's my decision. Do me.
Honestly. please.
Someone else is going to do me.
if not.
I don't want to do it
to anybody else.
- Please. genuinely.
- I don't think...
- Genuinely.
I think we've got we've got to
look who the Traitors are.
I'll do it myself.
I don't mind doing it to myself.
We've just got to go.
We've just got to...
We're wasting time.
I knew that I'd be scrutinised.
and my team didn't agree with it.
but I just snatched the spear out
of Sam's hand and just did it.
Reece!
Savage.
I didn't know how to take it.
really.
Is he just a really
clever Traitor now.
which is trying to get
the sympathy vote.
knowing that he won't
be murdered later anyway.
so he's happy to de-shield himself?
- Who we going for?
- Jade.
Because maybe there's a bit
of suss on her.
maybe.
whether she's a Traitor or not.
Do we knock people out
that we think are Traitors?
- Well. then we see what happens next.
- Yeah. see if they come back.
Jade. Sam. Reece...
- Do we go for Jade?
- Let's go for Jade.
Jade!
Interestingly.
Jade is right behind her.
Sorry.
A little bit awkward.
- It was me.
- Oh. shit.
I was gutted to see
that I was on fire.
because I didn't think that.
within that group.
they were that suspicious of me.
I feel really vulnerable
at this point in the game.
I'm going to say Amanda. then.
You do it. mate.
because you've just had one.
Amanda!
I set Amanda on fire.
JADE CHUCKLES
I just feel that Amanda
is going around puppeteering people.
She walks around with
this confidence
that you don't necessarily have
as a Faithful.
- Right. what are we doing?
- We've got to go off.
even now. looking at names like.
who's had any heat on them?
Maybe Fiona.
She's been. like.
spreading stuff today.
Shit.
Sam calls out Fiona's name.
I love Fiona to bits. and I need
to stick with my fellow Traitors.
so I didn't want to do that.
Do you think...
..Harriet? No.
- I think Harriet's explained herself.
- Yeah.
- I don't know what to do.
- Just do Fiona. I reckon.
Yeah. go on. then.
I can't protest too much
because it might seem as
though I'm trying to save her.
And then. if she then gets revealed
as a Traitor.
then that could feed back to me.
Sorry.
In the end. I just have
to go with the group decision.
and I have to call out Fiona's name
when I spear the beast.
Fiona!
Right. quick! Who?
- Faraaz.
- Stephen is under suspicion.
He is a bit. but...
- I think Stephen's up for suspicion.
and that's my rationale.
- Go for it.
I was clutching at straws.
There are some suspicions
around Stephen.
You know. what was going on
with Ross being framed.
And so that's why I picked him.
Stephen!
Ellie!
Faraaz!
Well done. guys!
You've got time!
Run!
Eight beasts are ablaze.
£8.000 has been added
to the prize fund.
And there are still two beasts
left to light.
- Have we got nine already?
- We've eight.
So there's one more.
There's one more. then.
Guys. check down low.
I think I've found it. Is that it?
Yes! Come on!
How long left?
Only two minutes left!
If you've got a spear. run!
Yes! Come on. let's go!
The last run to get the spear to
the beast was a pacey one.
- Come on. Amanda!
- Come on. Amanda. You got this.
Come on!
Guys. there's 30 seconds left.
- Who are you thinking?
- Matthew.
Matthew. I really suspect.
so he at least deserves some heat
from being in line for murder.
So. Mission "Get Matthew Speared"
was in play.
Matthew!
Yes!
- AIR HORN BLARES
- That's game over.
Come back from the woods!
Players. congratulations.
What an enormous group effort.
And well done. because you managed
to set nine beasts on fire.
You have added £9.000
to the prize fund.
You also made
some quite difficult decisions.
You had to choose who to sacrifice.
And the rain gods are angry.
LAUGHTER
The following people
are not protected from murder.
They are Sam.
Reece.
Jade.
Amanda.
Faraaz.
Fiona.
Ellie.
Stephen...
..and Matthew.
The rest of you.
you may be safe from murder.
but as you know.
nobody is safe from banishment.
I'll see you at the Round Table.
Off you go. Get dry.
For goodness' sake. have a biscuit.
Do you know what?
I think the Traitors
would have loved that mission.
It's made people very paranoid.
And I think
what they're going to do is
let all of that unfold
and sit back and watch.
- I'm going to vote for Sam because
I think he is a Traitor.
- And me too.
Who do you think has put you up?
- Sam.
- No. it wasn't. It was our...
- Oh. it was you?
No. it wasn't me personally.
but it was our team.
- Was it Jade?
- Yes.
We're the obvious choices because
we were in the cages last night.
- Yeah.
- And it's like. "Oh. let's just
do those three as a starter.
"because one of them's
probably a Traitor."
- So. yeah. all on death row again.
Happy days.
- We are.
- Yeah.
The irony. right? It's now sunny.
I know. Sod's law. isn't it?
Sod's law.
Whoo-whoo!
- We're like a rainbow coming down
the stairs. aren't we?
- Oh. we are!
All the different colours.
That looks nice.
- I mean. my jumper is going to be
in danger.
- Uh-oh!
You in danger. girl!
Amanda for you. I'm guessing?
I'm going to see how today's
Round Table is going to go.
The thing is. is that I want to
catch another Traitor. so I'm not...
If I keep voting for her
and no-one else is.
I look like I'm wasting my vote.
Does that make sense?
She's my two. Reece. then her.
Has anyone seen Rachel?
Here!
- Oh.
- Hello.
I'm worried. There are nine people
up for murder.
and I believe
that three of them are Traitors.
which definitely reduces my odds.
- Sorry. Faraaz. honestly.
it's nothing...
- It's not about you.
- No. it's fine.
Don't worry.
- Sorry.
So I made the decision
to tell someone my previous role.
Rachel. I was a senior detective
in the Metropolitan Police...
..so I'm very adept at
covert policing.
That was my job.
Of course I have to go and be. like.
best friends in the castle with...
RACHEL CHUCKLES SOFTLY
..the top detective. Oh. my God.
I'm thinking.
"Don't blink. Don't move."
I could feel myself going.
"Oh. God."
But actually.
I think it really helps my case.
So I'm trying to kind of figure out
how to let this roll out.
You are the only person
I will ever tell. OK?
I wasn't going to
say any of this to anybody...
..until I feel the odds
are slightly stacked against me.
If I don't come back tomorrow.
then I would like Rachel
to have some armoury to think about.
because it gives more
credence to my theories.
I'm not always right.
but I want to do the best that I can
for my fellow Faithfuls.
How coincidental
is it that I am still here. right?
So it's either. it's me. or it's...
I'm on the money with something.
I'm... Somebody has to keep me in.
How many close shaves?
I've been up for every murder.
I was the last one
to see Maz last night.
How coincidental is that?
I would suspect me as well.
How do we know there was
a definite Traitor yesterday?
I didn't think there was a Traitor
in the last four.
- because I could see...
- Really?!
No. Seeing how Stephen felt.
how Maz felt. how Sam looked. like.
I felt...
I was feeling the exact same.
- He would be my other one -
if there was another one.
- Who?
- You're on about Stephen?
- Yeah.
There's a lot to say
about overacting.
And it was like.
"Oh. I'm up for murder!"
And it was a bit
over-the-top for me.
I would have murdered
Stephen because...
But that's the point.
..I'm banishing myself
at this point.
People don't trust Sam.
The only person that voted Stephen
is Ross. and Ross isn't here.
I assumed it would be Stephen.
# Some kind of beautiful
# Some kind of crazy... #
Earlier. the players took aim
at each other at the mission.
But now it's time to shift
their focus and hunt a Traitor.
The question is. will they catch one?
I really don't want
to go home tonight.
but I'm clearly
being set up somewhere
because I think people
are convinced it's me.
Ultimately. I'm telling the truth.
But if you can't convince people.
what do you have?
- I'm nervous.
- I feel vulnerable.
But I want to catch the Traitor.
So. tonight at the Round Table.
the fight continues.
I'm anxious.
People are suspicious of me
right now.
I mean. it could really go any way.
to be honest.
I could be packing my bags tonight.
# No-one. no-one.
no-one can ever save me... #
Players.
welcome back to the Round Table.
Today you added £9.000 to the pot.
So your current prize fund total...
..is a very impressive £42.750.
Whoa.
You were extraordinary today.
Can you be as brilliant
here at the Round Table?
I know friendships have been formed.
but please remember...
..a friend might be lying to you.
A friend might be planning
to murder you.
So. Faithful.
can you catch a Traitor?
The floor is yours.
Right. I cannot get the whole Ross
being pinned out of my head. right?
We had a conversation
in the room with Ben.
"If I get murdered. then it's...
"Then it's Ross."
And I am getting a little bit
peeved about it because it's like.
why are we not looking at
who was in that room?
And the nine people
who was put up yesterday.
there must be one who was a Traitor.
right?
But I have aired Stephen's name.
If I was a Traitor.
I would keep Reece
because he has heat on him.
I would keep S...
..Sam because he has heat on him.
And I would keep Maz.
Because the only heat
you've had is off of Ross.
Just can't get my head round
how you've come back today.
to be honest.
Because I feel as if Maz had
a lot more heat on him than you did.
So. I had quite a lot of time to
think last night. right. about it.
I disagree that I would be...
..that I would be chosen
to be murdered over Maz.
I thought. out of me and Maz.
I had more heat on me
because of Ross's theory.
I don't think. personally -
and correct me if I'm wrong -
I don't think he had
that much heat on him at all.
Jade. I'm going to vote
for you again tonight. OK?
Two reasons.
The first being that.
at the second Round Table.
you voted for me
because I voted for you.
That's just untrue.
I didn't vote for you
because you voted for me.
I had my own suspicions already.
That was completely separate.
If I'm murdered tonight.
I would like everyone to know
that Jade is my number-one target.
And you must take seriously
everything that I've said
at these Round Tables.
Amanda. can I ask a question?
Sorry. I just...
I'm confused. because
the four of us were in the car
and I said to the car.
"I'm going to vote for Sam tonight."
And you came out saying that
you were going to vote for Sam.
All I want to know is
what's changed since the car.
It's really difficult.
We can only choose one at a time.
And my thoughts are - who is likely
to get votes out of the two of you?
I just don't know.
Um. yes.
I've got my suspicions of you.
and we can go through it all now.
- Happy to. yeah.
- OK.
Today you walked in and you said.
"I'm really tired.
but I know who's more tired than me.
"You've just got to look at him.
"Reece."
- What?!
- Yes. you did.
- I'm really sorry.
- I did not say that at all.
- Who else was in the room?
Who else was in the room?
Amanda. I'm just a bit confused
because you were
pointing the finger at me.
and then.
now you've just redirected to Sam.
and now you've pointed it at Reece.
That is an absolute lie.
and I've said it to people today.
I did not say. "Look at Reece."
I said. "I'm shattered.
"But I know for a fact the Traitors
are going to be more tired
"because I was released first.
and they..."
You didn't say that.
"And they had to wait until they had
to murder the last person there."
- You didn't say that.
- I've said that to people today.
You didn't say that. I can't...
- Oh. Mandy. you are spinning it.
- I'm not. I'm not.
- You are spinning it.
- I'm not
spinning it because I'm a Faithful.
I assure all of you. I promise you.
hand on heart. I am a Faithful.
I am a Faithful.
and I will stand there
and I will tell you I'm a Faithful.
I promise you that.
You're a very clever man - you are.
- And you will make
an excellent Traitor.
- I'm not.
- OK.
- Can I raise a point?
- Go on.
Amanda. one thing that has occurred
to me is that
it often feels like you're trying
to influence the game.
It's often. "Oh. you would be silly
if you did this.
- "It would be naive to think that."
- I've never said that.
- You do.
- I've given advice.
- You do it quite a lot.
Unless you think I'm a Traitor.
and that I'm misleading you...
..where is the harm?
Can I just say.
I spend a lot of time with you.
- Yeah.
- I have never seen that -
not once.
And I'm very opinionated.
Not once have I ever felt
that you planted seeds.
that you steered me.
Because I'm a Faithful. Rachel.
I'm trying to help you.
Can I have a quick go?
I won't take long.
Reece. I really think you are. man.
It's nothing personal at all.
It's... I'm tunnel vision
because I'm just so sure.
I feel like we're close.
You must be a Traitor.
I understand
that you took your own shield away.
Could you just explain why?
I would hate to come back and see
that someone had already done it.
and then it's a constant.
"Who's done that?"
So I was just like. look.
instead of picking somebody else
and then having to explain
why I think that.
I just ripped it out of their hands
and did it for me.
I also took satisfaction -
if I do it. no-one else can.
And I feel like I've had such a ride
in this game
that I'm almost dejected today.
I think.
because I'm convinced it's you.
your only play is to be uber.
like...
- Yeah. I know.
- ..mighty Faithful.
- Obviously. doing it.
I was very aware
that it's going to...
- I'm not trying to over-prove
anything.
- Yeah.
I know you're in a corner. I get it.
And if I'm wrong. I'm a tit.
I'll be honest.
when I was in that cage yesterday.
I was literally shouting to Fiona
to give our skulls away
because you all think I'm a Traitor.
so there's no point saving me.
As awful as it sounds.
I feel like I'm at a point now
in the game
where I don't think people WANT to
trust me. which is...
- That's not true at all.
- I know. but it's...
You're not in that position.
is my thing.
I do want to say. Reece.
I HAVE given you a bad time.
I know I have.
I can't get it out of my...
..out of my head that maybe you are
a really brilliant Traitor
or a crap Faithful.
LAUGHTER
I'm very confused about it.
- No. I know.
- And then all of this with Amanda -
I have to say. Amanda.
you have not been on my radar.
- I was very grateful for the
information.
- Thank you. Fiona.
- Yes. But that's slightly changed
because I don't know...
- Oh.
- Yes. I'm sorry.
- Oh. hang on.
I'm so sorry.
But. no. I'm just saying. in case...
I'm not sure.
But you've...
You've confused me with the Sam
and with the Jade.
Players. the time for talk is over.
Please write down the name of the
person you believe is a Traitor.
Matthew.
we're going to start with you.
Who do you believe is a Traitor
and why?
Amanda. I'm really sorry.
I voted for you tonight.
This at the Round Table
super-confused me.
Yeah. I'm sorry.
Jessie.
Stephen.
I just can't get this whole Ross
being pinned out of my head.
- It's OK.
- Sorry.
Reece.
Er. Ellie. I'm voting for you.
Jumping on bandwagons.
And then. to be in that room
when Ben said that about Ross
just marries it up for me -
a couple of the reasons why.
Harriet.
I decided that.
Stephen. I would vote for you.
I should have trusted Jessie more.
So I'm supporting
what she said this evening.
Rachel.
I voted for Sam.
And I think you would be
a phenomenal Traitor.
OK.
Jade.
Amanda. I voted for yourself.
I just think you are so clever.
And with the very long list of
evidence I've collected for myself.
that's why
I've put your name forward tonight.
Fiona.
Reece. I have voted for you.
I want you desperately
to be a Traitor.
Adam.
Sorry. Reece.
but I've put your name.
Faraaz.
So. today I voted for you. Stephen.
Can't get my head around
you coming back and Maz not.
to be honest. so...yeah.
- Roxy.
- Reece. I'm really sorry.
Stephen.
Amanda. These Round Tables are
quite telling for me. and that's...
That's why I've voted
for you tonight.
I'm sorry.
So. a vote count.
Three for Stephen...
..three for Amanda...
..three for Reece...
..one for Ellie...
..and one for Sam.
Ellie. who do you believe
is a Traitor and why?
Amanda. I love you.
but I do feel you are
trying to influence
how other people play the game.
Jack.
- Reece.
- JACK CHUCKLES SOFTLY
Look. I'm really sorry
if I'm wrong.
I just feel I've got to stay true
to myself and stick with my gut.
Amanda.
Jade.
I don't think I need to go into why.
James.
Um. tonight I'm voting for Reece.
So. we have five votes for Reece
and four for Amanda.
Sam. if you vote for Amanda.
then it's a draw.
If you vote for anybody else.
then. Reece.
you are banished.
Sam. who do you believe is a Traitor
and why?
Tonight I've voted for you. Amanda.
And I'm really sorry if I'm wrong.
You are. but...
Players. we have a draw.
Reece and Amanda.
you have five votes each.
We will not leave this Round Table
until there is a banishment.
RACHEL SIGHS
So. Amanda and Reece. I'm going
to ask you to make one final plea.
After that.
we will have another vote.
The rest of you will have
to vote for either Amanda or Reece.
If there is still a tie.
the banishment will be left
in the hands of chance.
So. please. Amanda.
Guys. I came into this game
chosen as a Faithful.
Because of my character.
I want to help.
And I feel that that's...
That's all I've done.
I am a Faithful.
and I'm just trying to help you
find the Traitors.
Reece.
I know why I'm. um...
My only question to you all is.
when I stand up there
and say I'm a Faithful.
what are you going to do then?
Because I came into today accepting
that I would be getting there
one way or another today.
And I'm just concerned
for what's next for you all.
because I just think.
like I said. I don't think
people want to believe me.
So it's just something to stew on.
if...
Yeah.
Players. you will now have
to vote for either Amanda or Reece.
There will be no more discussion.
Please write down on your slate
the name of the person
you believe is a Traitor.
Harriet.
we're going to start with you.
Who do you believe is a Traitor
and why?
Amanda. I'm sorry.
but I've written your name down.
Rachel.
I voted for Reece.
Jade.
Amanda.
Fiona.
Reece.
Adam.
Sorry. Reece. mate.
Faraaz.
I think both of yous are Faithfuls.
But just the acceptance
that you're going home.
I've voted for you. Reece.
Roxie.
Reece. I've stuck with
my initial decision.
So. a vote count.
Five for Reece. two for Amanda.
Stephen. who do you believe
is a Traitor and why?
Amanda.
I've not changed my vote either.
Ellie.
Amanda.
Jack.
Reece. I think
what you said was genuine.
but I'm just going to
stick with my guts.
James.
Reece. I'm sticking with you. man.
And I'm eternally sorry.
because I did lead the charge.
Sam.
Amanda.
Same reasons as before.
Matthew.
Amanda. I'm really sorry.
I couldn't change my vote.
So. a vote count.
Seven for Reece.
Six for Amanda.
It all comes down to this last vote.
Jessie. who do you believe
is a Traitor and why?
I honestly don't believe
that any of you are Traitors.
Amanda. I voted for you.
So. players. it is still a draw.
We have seven votes for Reece.
seven votes for Amanda.
Tonight's banishment is now
in the hands of fate.
What?!
Players...
..these are the Chests of Chance.
In one of them is a shield.
If you have the chest
that contains the shield.
then you are safe.
If you have an empty chest.
then you are banished immediately.
Amanda. Reece.
who would like to choose first?
You can do it.
I don't want to leave.
I really don't.
Leaving it to fate
is just so unsettling.
And that's awful. Of course
I don't want to go home tonight.
and I'll be absolutely gutted
if it arises to that.
Remember. if your chest is empty.
then you are immediately banished.
If you have the shield.
it means you are safe.
Please open your chest in three...
..two...
..one.
Open.
- Oh. my God!
- It's all right.
REECE SOBS SOFTLY
It's all right.
Amanda. you have been banished
from the game.
Please come up and join me.
Amanda. please now reveal.
are you a Faithful
or are you a Traitor?
What a ride. I don't think
there's anywhere on the planet
that you could meet
an amazing bunch of people.
But just remember. it's a game.
Remember everything
that I've said today.
And most importantly.
my house is your house - any time.
I don't need to go all dramatic.
I think you all know
what I'm going to say.
Take care of yourselves.
I'm a Faithful.
- Oh!
- # In this world gone mad
# We're spinning out of control... #
Faithful...
..you have banished one of your own.
And what's worse.
one of the un-shielded players
will be murdered tonight.
I will see the rest of you
at breakfast.
Goodnight.
I told you.
Sam. I'm sorry.
but that's two Faithfuls
who have now accused you of lying.
Vote me out tomorrow and I'll stand
up there and say. "Faithful."
I will. I promise you.
- I just can't look past that now.
- Yeah. cool. That's fine.
- I'm sorry.
That's fine.
I know I'm a Traitor.
but that broke my heart.
Amanda was my favourite person
in this whole experience.
# Everything will change
# In this world gone mad. #
REECE SNIFFLES
- I'm so sorry. guys.
- I got it so wrong.
I got it so wrong.
She's my day one.
do you know what I mean?
I try and fight her corner. but...
I really had it convinced in my head
that Amanda was a Traitor.
Lost for words. really.
Like. it was just so bizarre
and surreal
that she stood up there
and said she was a Faithful.
- You know. Amanda was going
for Jade a lot.
- I know.
That brings that back up.
I said one of them is.
I am completely off Reece now.
To break down like that.
fair enough.
- I don't think you can fake that.
- No.
I need a beer.
You've been witness to every single
possibility in this game. man.
Amanda. I loved her to bits. man.
I'm so obviously elated I'm here.
But I had to be the one
that left Maz.
I had to be the one
that left Amanda today.
And that is horrific.
Are you all right. Rachel?
She was just my favourite person
in here.
- She was an absolute legend.
- I know.
I loved Amanda.
- She was such a...
- I need to get everybody now.
- Get going?
No. I need to get everybody together
to tell them something.
- Oh. OK.
- Everybody.
Knowing Amanda's job.
I think that helps me significantly
in this game.
Amanda had said Sam and Jade.
which helps my game
because this could misdirect
everyone's attention.
So. Amanda trusted me with a secret
before she left.
So. the reason why
she was trying to help people
is because
she knows what she's doing.
and she's actually
a former detective.
She's trained -
highly trained in body language.
And she didn't tell anyone else
in the castle.
Can you see now what she was...
She was trying to help
people get to where...
- Oh.
- Yeah.
- It's part of the jigsaw puzzle.
People have to know
where her head was at.
how she's come to her conclusions.
- Because she's bloody trained
to do that.
- Yeah.
Amanda?
What is going on?
And she was a Faithful.
And Sam lives to fight another day.
Rachel has something to share.
So. I spoke to the guys next door.
so I just wanted to
come in to let you know.
So. the reason why Amanda wanted
to speak to me privately was.
she'd started
to tell me something very important.
She was a detective for years.
specialising in interrogation.
So she told me that.
She said
she didn't want to share it.
It would put
a huge target on her back.
What's going on here?
Rachel has come out with the fact
that Amanda had given her
confidential information.
I'm not sure
what narrative Rachel is peddling.
I am flummoxed!
You didn't hear the big reveal?
- No. go on.
- Me and Amanda
were speaking privately.
- She's a former detective...
- Ha-ha! What?!
..with years of
interrogation skills.
What?! Did YOU know this?
What... What is going on?!
I think...
..Rachel is lying about Amanda.
She was gleefully telling people.
"Amanda said to me.
"'I trust you explicitly.
I know you're a Faithful.'"
She's playing a blinder
and I don't believe it.
This is messing with my head now
because the person is very popular.
So I honestly believe that
Amanda would have told me.
because she was aware
that my husband
is a serving police officer.
that my brother
Rachel came in so gleefully
and I thought...
I think I know where you're going.
Fiona.
So I'm a bit angry about this.
because I feel I've been played now.
and I don't like that.
There's a quiet influence
which I'm not comfortable with.
And I think she's kept one or two
Faithful close to her
to protect her.
I hear you.
I'm banking what you've said.
- I need... Just before
the gong goes.
- Yeah. no. you go.
I already sense that Rachel
is feathering her own nest.
She's a very popular player.
She's very ambitious.
and I don't trust her.
I am quite forthright.
I'm happy to challenge people.
So it's me and her now -
me and her.
- Rachel. sorry.
can I have a little word?
- Yes.
Jesus wept!
What's that about?
I'm really suspicious of you.
I question
why she would have told you.
knowing all my background.
But what is your background?
Half my family are coppers -
and she knew that.
I didn't know that.
And she knew I'd worked
for the police.
- And you came down gleefully
into the room.
- No. I thought...
But I thought it was
the last thing I could do for her.
I just want you to know
that I'm suspicious.
- Of me?
- Yes.
Why?
I think you're going to
get rid of Stephen and I.
No. I don't want to.
I think you're holding people -
Faithfuls close to you.
I think you had Amanda.
- I can't control what people tell me.
- No.
- She...
- So why did she tell you?
- She sought me out to tell me.
And I think it was
because she trusted me.
So you can't...
You can't question her judgment.
- That was up to her.
- No. I'm not.
Are you fibbing?
What...
What am I fibbing about?
I didn't pre-plan that.
- I...
- I don't think she's told you that.
I think you have done this...
- You don't think that
she spoke to me?
- No. no.
No. I don't.
- I don't. I think you have
done this...
- Fiona!
..for your own benefit.
- So you don't think that she sat me
in there and told...
- No.
Not for one minute.
OK. well. then I'm not
continuing this conversation.
- Fiona. that is shocking.
- Well.
it's best I tell you. isn't it?
- Oh. my God.
- Are you for real?
Obviously I know the truth.
I know that Amanda
told me what she told me.
This game has officially started.
- Can I just tell you something
really. really quickly?
- Oh. yeah?
- So. do you know that Fiona doesn't
like private chats?
- Uh-huh.
She's only after pulling me
to the side and saying outright.
"I think you're lying about
what Amanda told you."
- Oh.
- So I says. "No. no. no."
So I pulled her out and I said.
"Say it in front of everybody."
She's literally just said.
"I don't believe
what Amanda told you."
- Should we go in?
- Yeah. do you want us to go?
Rachel is not a team player.
She hasn't once defended Stephen.
So I think Rachel will throw me
under a bus and Stephen under a bus.
She's absolutely brilliant
at this game - fair play.
But she's had it too easy.
Right. what just... At least try for
a second to have one conversation.
Fiona. go on.
So. I believe
that Rachel is a Traitor.
Whoa!
ROXY LAUGHS
Are you saying this
because you don't
want to get murdered tonight.
and you're trying to. like.
spice it up a little bit?
I believe Rachel is a Traitor.
and I also believe that Amanda
did not confide in Rachel.
What has just happened
in that castle?
I'm... I'm shaking.
I'm...
This is chaotic.
The castle
has descended into craziness.
What the hell's going to happen
in this turret tonight?
I'm shooketh. Absolutely shook.
Fiona. I did not see
this coming whatsoever!
- What the
- BLEEP?
CLOCK CHIMES
What just happened?
Why would she say that?
I tell you what. it's floored me.
but it has given me a direct target
for tomorrow.
Fiona.
do you actually think she's lying?
I do.
I wouldn't say it!
# Shadows waking... #
See you tomorrow.
ROXY LAUGHS
- I HOPE to see you in the morning.
- Goodnight. Ellie!
- Fingers crossed.
# Into the fire
# I'll be right.
I'll be right here... #
Night-night.
# The world awaits
# Our time has come. #
I have done nothing wrong.
I want to see
what she has to say for herself.
But the fact that she came for me
means I'm coming right for her.
I've thrown a grenade in.
It's up to you. Rach.
how you want this.
But I promise you this -
you've got a fight on your hands.
girl.